README.md, before:

# Setting up an Arch Linux Server on DigitalOcean using `doctl` and `cloud-init`

## Introduction to DigitalOcean
DigitalOcean is a cloud computing service that provides access to remote servers. We will be using DigitalOceans services to create a virtual server or also known as a Droplet, that will run Arch Linux. We will also walk you through connecting the virtual server to your local machine using SSH Keys.

This Tutorial is aimed at Term 2 CIT Students who have some knowledge of command-line functions but do not know how to create a cloud infrastructure. In the tutorial, we will cover generating SSH Keys, creating Droplets using `doctl` command-line tool, using cloud-init to configure your Droplet and adding a custom Arch Linux image.

## Overview
1. [Creating a SSH Key on your device](#creating-a-ssh-key-on-your-device)
2. [Installing and Configuring `doctl`](#installing-and-configuring-doctl)
3. [Configuring `cloud-init`](#configuring-cloud-init)
4. [Creating a Droplet using `doctl`](#creating-a-droplet-using-doctl)
5. [Connecting to the Droplet via SSH](#)

# Instructions
## Creating a SSH Key on your device
We need to create a SSH Key to securely connect to your remote server. SSH is an encrypted connection method that provides us with more security than password-based authentication as the private SSH Key is stored on your device, ensuring only you can access the server.

**Step 1:** Open the **Terminal** on your device

> **Note:** Step 2 & 3 are for users who do not have a .ssh folder. You can check if you have an .ssh folder with the following code `ls .\.ssh\`

**Step 2:** Type ``cd ~`` into the terminal and press **Enter**
> This will change your directory into your user file, where we will create the SSH Key.

**Step 3:** Type ``mkdir .ssh`` into the terminal and press **Enter**
> This will create a new folder called **ssh** on your device

**Step 4:** Type this code into your terminal
```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f C:\Users\your-username\.ssh\key-name -C "your-email-address"
```

![SSH Key Code](Images/creating_sshkey.jpg)

> **Note:** Change "your-username" with the current user in the terminal (in the picture above it would be kimsu), "key-name" with your desired Key name, and "your-email-address" with your desired email address

![SSH Key](Images/sshkey.jpg)

> Your key should look something like this

**Congratulations you have successfully created a SSH Key Pair!**

## Installing and Configuring `doctl`

### What is `doctl`?
Doctl is short for DigitalOcean Control, and it is the official command-line interface for the DigitalOcean API. It allows you to use your local command line to interact with DigitalOcean resources. For this tutorial we will be using `doctl` to help us create our Droplet
> We will be splitting this step into 4 simple parts:
> 1. Installing `doctl` on your local device
> 2. Creating an API token
> 3. Using the API token to grant account access to `doctl`
> 4. Validate that `doctl` is working

### Installing `doctl` on your local device
>**Note:** We are installing `doctl` for windows devices. If your device is running a different OS system, we recommend looking at the official DigitalOcean `doctl` installation documents for code relative to your operating system.

**Step 1:** Open your **Terminal** 

**Step 2:** Run the code below in your Terminal
```
Invoke-WebRequest https://github.com/digitalocean/doctl/releases/download/v1.110.0/doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64.zip -OutFile ~\doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64.zip
```

**Step 3:** Extract the binary by running the code below
```
Expand-Archive -Path ~\doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64.zip
```

**Step 4:** In a terminal opened with **Run as Administrator** create a new directory with the code below
```
New-Item -ItemType Directory $env:ProgramFiles\doctl\
```
> This code creates a new directory where we can move the `doctl` binary into

**Step 5:** Move the `doctl` binary into the new directory with the code below
```
Move-Item -Path ~\doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64\doctl.exe -Destination $env:ProgramFiles\doctl\
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable(
    "Path",
    [Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path",
    [EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine) + ";$env:ProgramFiles\doctl\",
    [EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine)
$env:Path = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","Machine")
```

**Congratulations, you have installed `doctl` on your local device!**

### Creating an API token
To use the API, we need to create a personal access token and we will be using the token to authenticate and connect to the API. We will be creating the API and token in the DigitalOcean website
>**Warning:** Keep your token secret as they act like passwords.  

**Step 1:** Click on **API** on the left-handed side of the menu and click **Generate New Token**

**Step 2:** On the **Create a New Personal Access Token** fill out the following:
> - Token Name
> - Expiration
> - Scopes - Based on your team role

![Filling out your personal access token](Images/personaltokengeneration.jpg)

**Step 3:** Click **Generate Token**
> **Warning:** After generating the token, it will show you your personal token code. This code will only appear once, so make sure to save your token somewhere safe

**Congratulations, you have successfully created a New Personal Access Token through the API!**

### Using the API token to grant account access to `doctl`

**Step 1:** Open your **Terminal**

**Step 2:** Type the the code below into your terminal
```
doctl auth init --context <NAME>
```
> **Note:** Change the *NAME* to a name of your choice

> This code will create an authentication context which we need to connect to through our API Token. (*)

**Step 3:** The terminal will prompt you for your Personal token code. Paste your token code into the terminal and press **Enter**

**Congratulations, you have granted account access to `doctl` using your API token!**

### Validate that `doctl` is working
This step will check if you have configured and installed `doctl` correctly

> Make sure you are switched into your account. If you are not in the account you can switch into it by typing `doctl auth switch --context <account-name>` and changing *account-name* to the name of the account

Type this command below into your terminal
```
doctl account get
```
![`doctl` code and result](Images/validatingaccount.jpg)

> Your output should look something like this

**Congratulations, your `doctl` is working!**

## Configuring `cloud-init`

## Creating a Droplet using `doctl`

## Connecting to the Droplet via SSH

Commit message:

Redid sshkey in arch linux

README.md, after:

# Setting up an Arch Linux Server on DigitalOcean using `doctl` and `cloud-init`

## Introduction to DigitalOcean
DigitalOcean is a cloud computing service that provides access to remote servers. We will be using DigitalOceans services to create a virtual server or also known as a Droplet, that will run Arch Linux. We will also walk you through connecting the virtual server to your local machine using SSH Keys.

This Tutorial is aimed at Term 2 CIT Students who have some knowledge of command-line functions but do not know how to create a cloud infrastructure. In the tutorial, we will cover generating SSH Keys, creating Droplets using `doctl` command-line tool, using cloud-init to configure your Droplet and adding a custom Arch Linux image.

## Overview
1. [Creating a SSH Key on your device](#creating-a-ssh-key-on-your-device)
2. [Installing and Configuring `doctl`](#installing-and-configuring-doctl)
3. [Configuring `cloud-init`](#configuring-cloud-init)
4. [Creating a Droplet using `doctl`](#creating-a-droplet-using-doctl)
5. [Connecting to the Droplet via SSH](#)

# Instructions
## Creating a SSH Key on your device
We need to create a SSH Key to securely connect to your remote server. SSH is an encrypted connection method that provides us with more security than password-based authentication as the private SSH Key is stored on your device, ensuring only you can access the server.

**Step 1:** Open the **Terminal** on your device

**Step 2:** Type this code into your terminal
```
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f C:\Users\your-username\.ssh\key-name -C "your-email-address"
```

![SSH Key Code](Images/creating_sshkey.jpg)

> **Note:** Change "your-username" with the current user in the terminal (in the picture above it would be kimsu), "key-name" with your desired Key name, and "your-email-address" with your desired email address

![SSH Key](Images/sshkey.jpg)

> Your key should look something like this

**Step 3:** Check that both your private key and public are in the .ssh directory by typing `cd ~/.ssh` and then `ls`

![Keys in .ssh folder](Images/checkingbothkeys.jpg)

> If both keys are present than you have successfully created the keys

**Congratulations you have successfully created a SSH Key Pair!**

## Installing and Configuring `doctl`

### What is `doctl`?
`doctl` is the DigitalOcean CLI used for interacting with your DigitalOcean account and managing resources. For this tutorial we will be using `doctl` to help us create our Droplet from a existing Droplet
> We will be splitting this step into 4 simple parts:
> 1. Installing `doctl` on Arch Linux
> 2. Creating an API token
> 3. Using the API token to grant account access to `doctl`
> 4. Validate that `doctl` is working

### Installing `doctl` on Arch Linux

**Step 1:** Open your **Terminal** 

**Step 2:** Run the code below in your Terminal
```

```

**Step 3:** Extract the binary by running the code below
```
Expand-Archive -Path ~\doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64.zip
```

**Step 4:** In a terminal opened with **Run as Administrator** create a new directory with the code below
```
New-Item -ItemType Directory $env:ProgramFiles\doctl\
```
> This code creates a new directory where we can move the `doctl` binary into

**Step 5:** Move the `doctl` binary into the new directory with the code below
```
Move-Item -Path ~\doctl-1.110.0-windows-amd64\doctl.exe -Destination $env:ProgramFiles\doctl\
[Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable(
    "Path",
    [Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path",
    [EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine) + ";$env:ProgramFiles\doctl\",
    [EnvironmentVariableTarget]::Machine)
$env:Path = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path","Machine")
```

**Congratulations, you have installed `doctl` on your local device!**

### Creating an API token
To use the API, we need to create a personal access token and we will be using the token to authenticate and connect to the API. We will be creating the API and token in the DigitalOcean website
>**Warning:** Keep your token secret as they act like passwords.  

**Step 1:** Click on **API** on the left-handed side of the menu and click **Generate New Token**

**Step 2:** On the **Create a New Personal Access Token** fill out the following:
> - Token Name
> - Expiration
> - Scopes - Based on your team role

![Filling out your personal access token](Images/personaltokengeneration.jpg)

**Step 3:** Click **Generate Token**
> **Warning:** After generating the token, it will show you your personal token code. This code will only appear once, so make sure to save your token somewhere safe

**Congratulations, you have successfully created a New Personal Access Token through the API!**

### Using the API token to grant account access to `doctl`

**Step 1:** Open your **Terminal**

**Step 2:** Type the the code below into your terminal
```
doctl auth init --context <NAME>
```
> **Note:** Change the *NAME* to a name of your choice

> This code will create an authentication context which we need to connect to through our API Token. (*)

**Step 3:** The terminal will prompt you for your Personal token code. Paste your token code into the terminal and press **Enter**

**Congratulations, you have granted account access to `doctl` using your API token!**

### Validate that `doctl` is working
This step will check if you have configured and installed `doctl` correctly

> Make sure you are switched into your account. If you are not in the account you can switch into it by typing `doctl auth switch --context <account-name>` and changing *account-name* to the name of the account

Type this command below into your terminal
```
doctl account get
```
![`doctl` code and result](Images/validatingaccount.jpg)

> Your output should look something like this

**Congratulations, your `doctl` is working!**

## Configuring `cloud-init`

## Creating a Droplet using `doctl`

## Connecting to the Droplet via SSH
